# rgen

Resource code generator for iOS inspired by the Android `R` resource class.

The Android `R` resource class is generated by a tool called
`aapt` (Android Asset Packaging Tool) and makes it possible to access resources
conveniently and safely.
For example access images like this
`imageView.setImageResource(R.drawable.someimage)`
or strings this
`getString(R.string.hello)`.
`rgen` makes it possible to access resources in a similar way on iOS by
reading the Xcode project file and generate code for resources that
will be available in the application bundle.

#### Load images like this

	imageView.image = I.images.cuteSeal;

instead of this

	imageView.image = [UIImage imageNamed:@"images/cute-seal.png"];

#### Specify resource paths like this

	[NSDictionary dictionaryWithContentsOfFile:P.files.dogsPlist];

instead of this

	[NSDictionary dictionaryWithContentsOfFile:
	 [[[NSBundle mainBundle] resourcePath]
	  stringByAppendingPathComponent:@"files/dogs.plist"]];

#### Name localization string keys like this

	NSLocalizedString(S.cats, nil)

instead of this

	NSLocalizedString(@"cats", nil)

This is very nice for several reasons

*  Less error-prone as you get compile time errors for missing images,
   files and string keys.
*  Code completion for resources
*  Less and nicer looking code

## Install

Compile from source:

	$ git clone git://github.com/wader/rgen.git
	$ cd rgen
	$ xcodebuild
	$ cp build/Release/rgen /to/somewhere

Note that if you compile with Xcode 4 from the IDE the binary will probably
not end up in the build directory. Instead try "Show in finder" on the rgen
binary under "Products".

If don't want to compile yourself there is a binary for download compiled for
Mac OS X 10.6 i386 that will work on both 32 and 64 bit systems.

## Usage

	Usage: ./rgen [-IPSv] xcodeproject [Output path] [Target name]
	  -I, --images      Generate I images property tree
	  -P, --paths       Generate P paths property tree
	  -S, --stringkeys  Generate S localizable string keys class
	  --loadimages      Generate loadImages/releaseImages methods
	  --ipad            Support @ipad image name scale suffix
	  --ipad2x          Support @2x as 1.0 scale image on iPad
	  -v, --verbose     Verbose output

If no `Output path` is specified code will be generated to
`Resources.m` and `Resources.h` in the current dirctory.

If no `Target name` is specified `rgen` will merge
resources for all targets.

`-I`, `-P` and `-S` enables code generation for
the different resources. At least one must be enabled.

`--imageimages` generates two methods `loadImages` and
`releaseImages` for each image directory. `loadimages`
can be used to load and retin all images in a dirctory and below.
`releaseImages` does the opposite by releasing them.

`--ipad` generates image loading code that will extend the normal
`@2x` suffix to also load `@ipad` images if found on
iPad devices.

`--ipad2x` generates image loading code that loads `@2x`
images as scale 1.0 images on iPad devices. If `--ipad` is enabled
a `@ipad` image has priority.

`-v` enables verbose logging to see what rgen does.

### Xcode build run script

Add a "New run script build phase" to your target. The run script should look
something like the one below. `which` is used to make sure a user can
build without `rgen` is installed.
`$PROJECT_FILE_PATH` and `$SRCROOT` will be assigned
by Xcode.

	RGEN="/path/to/rgen"
	which -s "$RGEN" && "$RGEN" -IPS "$PROJECT_FILE_PATH" "$SRCROOT/Classes/Resources"

Now build the target and two new files, in this case
`Classes/Resources.m` and `Classes/Resources.h` will be
created. Add these as source files to your project and then import
`Resources.h` where you want access to the resouces classes.
Then and your good to go!

To make thing even smoother you can add a `#import "Resources.h"` line
to your `*_Prefix.pch` file. `rgen` makes sure not to touch
the generated files if nothing has changed since last run to not trigger
unnecessary rebuilds.

### Multi target setup

Every target should generate their own resource code and header file to make
sure you get compile errors if you accidently use resources not available to
a target.

Each target should have a build script, for example:

TargetA

	RGEN="/Users/mattias/src/rgen/build/Release/rgen"
	which -s "$RGEN" && "$RGEN" -IPS "$PROJECT_FILE_PATH" "$SRCROOT/Classes/TargetA" "$TARGET_NAME"

TargetB
	
	RGEN="/Users/mattias/src/rgen/build/Release/rgen"
	which -s "$RGEN" && "$RGEN" -IPS "$PROJECT_FILE_PATH" "$SRCROOT/Classes/TargetB" "$TARGET_NAME"

Now the files `TargetA.m`, `TargetA.m`, `TargetB.m` and `TargetB.h` will be
generated. Build each target and then add the files to the corresponding
target of your project.

Unfortunately the C preprocessor does not support comparing strings
(`#if TARGET_NAME == "TargetA"` etc) so if you not already have some define
to distinguish between your targets you should add a define under
"Preprocessor marcos" in your build settings. A solution is to define TARGETA
to some dummy value for target TargetA and TARGETB for target TargetB.

Now add imports to some shared header file (`*_Prefix.pch` is a good place).

	#if defined(TARGETA)
	#import "TargetA.h"
	#elif defined(TARGETB)
	#import "TargetB.h"
	#endif

Done!

### Run from terminal

Should work fine as long as your project does not have unsupported source
trees paths.
rgen uses various exported environment variables when running in a build
script to figure out paths but can fallback to guessing paths based on
project path.

Example:
`rgen -IPS path/to/app.xcodeproj path/to/Classes/ResourcesTargetA TargetA`

Will generate files `path/to/Classes/ResourcesTargetA.m` and
`path/to/Classes/ResourcesTargetA.h` with images, paths and string
keys found for target `TargetA`

## Known issues and TODOs

*  Support custome source tree paths
*  Support Mac OS X applications. Autodetect via SDK (iphoneos/macosx) and
   generate NSImage code etc
*  Read other .strings files (more then just Localizable.strings)
*  Detect class name collisions
*  Support document paths somehow. Specify list of known paths etc
*  Rebuild dependencies seams to be calculated before starting build
   so you might need to build twice to use updated resources files
*  Xcode plugin?
*  RGEN path as user setting for shared project files. Make sure rgen is in
   path or use .xcconfig files? 
